README.md, before:

![alt text](logo.png "")
# SailingBoat
Application

## Components
- PC - Raspberry Pi 3 WiFi
- Boat - RC Laser
- Receiver - Futaba
- Controller - Futaba
- Switch - RC Switch
- Servo Controller - Maestro
- Servo - Futuba
- Relay - Omron
- GPS - GlobalSat
- Compass - CMPS12
- Converter - Turnigy 40V 5A
- Batteries - Turnigy 11V 500mAh

## Diagram
![alt text](doc/hardware/scheme_hardware.JPG "")

## Installation
Follow the [Arch Linux ARM download and installation guide](https://archlinuxarm.org/platforms/armv8/broadcom/raspberry-pi-3)

Install packages:
- [i2c-tools](https://www.archlinux.org/packages/community/x86_64/i2c-tools/)
- [WiringPi](https://github.com/WiringPi/WiringPi)
- [gpsd](https://www.archlinux.org/packages/community/x86_64/gpsd/)

Edit the file *boot/cmdline.txt* and remove entries with*ttyAMA0(ex. console=ttyAMA0,115200)*.

Edit the file *boot/config.txt*
- Uncomment the line *device_tree_param=i2c_arm=on*.
- Uncomment the line *device_tree_param=i2s=on*.
- Uncomment the line *device_tree_param=spi=on*.

Edit the file */etc/modules-load.d/raspberrypi.conf*.
- Add line *i2c-bcm2708*.
- Add line *i2c-dev*.

Edit the file */etc/hostname*.

- Change text to *sailbot*.

For more information about devices on the raspberry pi go to: [this link](https://archlinuxarm.org/wiki/Raspberry_Pi)

## Code Procedure

1. Determine destination (Latitude, Longitude)
2. Check wind to determine best angle of approach (AOA)
3. Select angle and set a waypoint (in meters)
4. Each update cycle, compare our current bearing vector and adjust the
   waypoint, adjust bearing as neccesary.
5. repeat step 2-4.

Commit message:

Fixed new license, changed README.md

README.md, after:

![alt text](logo.png "")
# SailingBoat
Project application for the "Programkonstruktion och projekthantering"
(also known as the PoP kurs) course at Åland Polytechnic.

## Components

- PC - Raspberry Pi 3 WiFi
- Boat - RC Laser
- Receiver - Futaba
- Controller - Futaba
- Switch - RC Switch
- Servo Controller - Maestro
- Servo - Futuba
- Relay - Omron
- GPS - GlobalSat
- Compass - CMPS12
- Wind-sensor - MA3
- Converter - Turnigy 40V 5A
- Batteries - Turnigy 11V 500mAh

## Diagram
Hardware scheme [this link](https://github.com/SilverSailors/SailingBoat/blob/master/doc_hardware/scheme_hardware.JPG)

![alt text](doc_hardware/scheme_hardware.JPG "")
## Installation
Either use Archlinux ARM(which is default for this course), or use Raspbian,
but if Raspbian is used, then some things might not be done the same way.

Follow the [Arch Linux ARM download and installation
guide](https://archlinuxarm.org/platforms/armv8/broadcom/raspberry-pi-3) for Arch.

## Post-Installation
The application requires some libraries in order to compile, these packages
holds things such as the i2c 

### Install packages:
- [i2c-tools](https://www.archlinux.org/packages/community/x86_64/i2c-tools/)
- [WiringPi](https://github.com/WiringPi/WiringPi)
- [gpsd](https://www.archlinux.org/packages/community/x86_64/gpsd/)

Edit the file *boot/cmdline.txt* and remove entries with*ttyAMA0(ex. console=ttyAMA0,115200)*.

Edit the file *boot/config.txt*
- Uncomment the line *device_tree_param=i2c_arm=on*.
- Uncomment the line *device_tree_param=i2s=on*.
- Uncomment the line *device_tree_param=spi=on*.

Edit the file */etc/modules-load.d/raspberrypi.conf*.
- Add line *i2c-bcm2708*.
- Add line *i2c-dev*.

Edit the file */etc/hostname*.

- Change text to *sailbot*.

For more information about devices on the raspberry pi go to: [this link](https://archlinuxarm.org/wiki/Raspberry_Pi)

## Code Procedure

1. Determine destination (Latitude, Longitude)
2. Check wind to determine best angle of approach (AOA)
3. Select angle and set a waypoint (in meters)
4. Each update cycle, compare our current bearing vector and adjust the
   waypoint, adjust bearing as neccesary.
5. repeat step 2-4.

## License
This is free software, licensed under [MIT](LICENSE).
